# Neural-Network-Applications

This is a semester-long research project required for all Computer Science majors to choose their topic of interest, write a research paper about the topic, and give short
presentation at the course CSCI 200 Algorithm Analysis. 


## Objectives

I have chosen a topic of Neural Network for my Junior Indepedent Study project on Spring 2020. 
Throughout the research project, I researched the applications of Neural network to real-world problems by examining two case studies related to the topic. 

1. Iris classification
2. Classification of Suicidal commital among Korean adolescents in 2019


## Abstract

Feedforward Neural Network (FNN) is one of the Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) that possesses the simplest architecture in its algorithm. 
This paper aims to provide a reader general explanation of the FNN. 
In addition, the paper presents an essential algorithm for improving the performance of the FNN - backpropagation. 
Through reading a high level of explanation of backpropgation, the reader understands how the Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) - one type of the FNN - corrects the error generated by the execution of its algorithm. 
Lastly, the paper discusses the applications of the MLP with backpropagation algorithm to solving real-world problems, such as pattern classification tasks. 
Examining two case studies of the applications of the MLP, the paper therefore provides an insight into how the FNN as well as the ANNs have been utilized as a machine learning method in the real world. 

## Programming Files

### Iris.py 

A Python program that applies FNN/MLP to Iris classification, using Scikit-learn machine learning library

### Suicide.py

A Python program that applies FNN/MLP to Classification of Suicidal committal among Korean youths, using Scikit-learn machine learning library

### Kyrbs_2019_edit.csv

A cleaned data set for Suicide.py 

### DataCleaningTask.R

A R script for data cleaning task


